Okay, hang on let me get the other guys on the phone.
Okay, Darryl are you on the line?
Excuse me?
I got some other people coming on the line here who are working on the show.
Darryl are you on the line?
Yes.
Hi Darryl.
Howdy.
Okay Dave are you on the line?
At the level.
Okay Dave's getting the level set.
Go ahead.
How's the weather out in Florida?
It's still a little bit of a cold weather today.
I think it's been pretty cloudy and a lot cooler than we've been having.
I think we've been having an easier time.
On a set this morning you were pretty high up but maybe you've messed with most of it.
It's been fairly.
We're in our rainy season.
We've had a lot of rain in my chopper week.
Yeah I was out there in September I managed to hit Hurricane Frederick and Hurricane David.
I was up in Washington DC and I got roasted.
I was in New York City and I got roasted and I came back to Florida and popped them out.
And that's where I went in.
Pretty good.
How are the levels Dave?
Dave are you on the line?
Yes I'm here.
Okay you got the level set?
Yes.
Dave Burling.
Right Dave.
Okay.
Hi.
This is the next voice will be David Cruz.
Hi there.
And the other voice is Darryl Lane.
Glad to meet you Mr. Hogan.
Right.
So there are what?
Three of your amps and one here.
Right.
Right now it's gone.
Bye Dave.
Okay we're the team that puts together the show.
The line is a little bit tight.
Your voice drops here and there and I miss the syllable.
Okay we'll try and be distinct on this end.
You can only mount something else but you can help me.
Okay everybody speak into the mouthpiece real good.
Okay I think Darryl is going to lead off with a question.
We're going to first be talking about your book.
Two Faces Tomorrow.
Yeah Mr. Hogan you have some people in the novel I think Hayes and maybe Frank Westcott
too that mentioned that machines might be the next step in evolution.
Yeah.
That there's a natural movement from organic life to inorganic.
Right.
Do you personally believe this or is that just a notion you play with?
A little bit of both really.
It's one way of interpreting the direction that we seem to be moving in.
I don't set myself up as a prophet.
I like to play with things that might be thrown and get pictures around them.
I apply the word evolution not to the restricted sense to biological species but to the universal
process that characterizes the emergence of more complex and more highly ordered systems
out of simpler systems.
Entriple reversal sleep.
We've got a lot of doing profits these days.
We're worried about energy running out.
The latest word they've matched onto is entropy.
The universe is all going to run down and we'll have to wind down our dewyks in our
oil lamp to ration things out so the universe will run another day.
I think they're listing the word entropy out of its scientific context and applying
it already without a full understanding of its meaning.
Entropy increases naturally in a closed system.
In other words, one that is isolated physically or functionally from its environment, particularly
from an energy source.
It seems to be the universal tendency, I use the term universal and the universal tendency
throughout the universe.
The systems that experience an energy throughput are actually self organized for more complex
structures to emerge.
Going right back to the primordial planar of stellar in series or whatever it became
maybe for that we have raw nuclei and then when the temperatures drop a little electron
will come to a much stably amount of nuclear control.
Then when you get down to the temperature of a planetary surface, molecules begin to form
progressively more complex and more fragile molecules and temperature reduces.
Until eventually you get life.
Eventually intelligence and each step in the process the whole, the trust of the underlying
process needs to be to produce more complex or energy intensive systems that operate
with a higher energy throughput from lower ones.
At the latest stage in the net we we turn right before we start a spectrum of the
starboarders and that and we step along the way to the prerequisite of the next.
And now that the brain has appeared what could that be considerably what was it for?
Well guided intelligence to make the changes and I see no law of nature or no principle
that the human being can become intelligent.
I think that's another step along the way.
I think that's the only way to extrapolate the process.
And in both states opening I see absolutely nothing unnatural about the applied intelligence.
Man harnessing fires and the oil and other nuclear energy.
Simply being an expression of that same process is a perfectly natural, raw fall rate operating
at the level of applied intelligence.
That's a very interesting answer.
David told me to hold it for just a second. He's plugging in another machine to increase
the clarity.
Can you hear us okay?
Yes you're coming through fire.
Okay let me get the machine running again.
Yeah I think we're back now.
Yeah I think we've had some change complete.
Sounded like it's better processing time.
I think it was maybe a computer trying to get on the line.
Maybe they're trying to tell us something.
He's checking out the type machine real quick.
Okay James talk to me for just a second.
Speak to me so I can get a level.
Just say a few words there.
Yeah there we go that's got it just fine.
David you back with us?
Yes go ahead Darrell.
David Cruz why don't you go ahead.
Take your turn.
Mr. Hogan I understand that you work with computers yourself.
Do you know how far that we have come toward having a computer program like Hesper that
makes a common sense type of judgment?
Not very far I suspect.
It's interesting to think we look at the process of evolution of physical forms.
People, it's been well it is pretty amazing the complexity and the kind of impressive
biological structures that become.
And the intelligence in my submission is that it is the parallel evolution of our
behavioral patterns and nervous systems.
Coming on while our physical form has been adapted with this.
If survival is the name of the evolution James then obviously things like big T's
and big scans can come or something.
I would contend that behavior of an organism is the least of it's role in determining
the chart of survival.
It's not more so the way in which an organism responds to its environment and how it interacts with its environment.
And if we trace that process we begin to take out a lot of the basic ingredients that
pretty well everybody would agree are necessary components of what we normally term intelligence.
For example, I am answering you questions that we could have gotten around about time to wait.
The earliest jellyfish can add or the stunts can go back to the stunts.
It involves specialized cells that respond into stimuli tactics after it's arrived in the environment
to produce reflex reactions such as expanding a cell and increasing the probability of it
to go down to the water.
By the time you get the jellyfish it's the cells that are specialized and connected up to
a primitive neural network that is co-ordinating the neural network.
Later on we get concentrations of their own tissues to increase the brain.
And as the brain develops, through successively my husband is on the ground.
The entities that are processed in the brain become progressively further removed from the
raw physical sensory data that comes into the outside world.
They become more abstract, more reduced in reality and more symbolic.
For example, the ultimate expression of both of the human being, the entities that we've
manipulated our minds are well-ventured beings.
The quantities that entend on our senses are pressure waves, electromagnetic waves, physical
contact, but in terms of basic physics, we don't perceive the world around us or ourselves
in the internals.
We manipulate symbolic representations of people, friends, enemies, and places, emotions.
All the complicated things that go together to make up the world model and the complex
organism is connected to the complicated environment at a higher level.
And as it is, along the way the organism would be building up its intellectual aspect,
that is, it would be necessary to develop a world model, an analog of the world around
it, which necessarily makes it a 3-dimensional model and is by object.
Man is, if it's, leading to some kind of, that becomes a primary driving force.
And it's a very necessary function to develop the notion of a self-sufficiency to survive
and to protect the existing, existing, and the other, the re-rater of the environment
which is essentially involved.
So the self-image within that environment becomes pretty hard to escape from.
To put it in evolutionary terms, once the self-image began to emerge, it would be very, very strongly
reinforced.
And, going up to the more complex, I would say, yep, please.
I should know.
Yes, sir.
Are you conscious of your role as a hard science fiction writer?
I'm not a hard science fiction writer.
I'm a hard science fiction writer.